The Software Development Life Cycle involves planning, creating, testing, and deploying software.
Different Software Development Life Cycle methodologies are used in different types of projects, due to the fact that different projects have different requirements. No one methodology is inherently better or worse than another, they just all fit different specificities, and are to be used in different ways.

Agile Methodology is highly iterative and adaptive, depending greatly on consumer feedback and collaboration. This methodology is very useful in projects where adaptability and versatility is needed- such as creating an app that is built off customer feedback. It ensures a good product, due to the many rounds of testing it goes through.
Waterfall Methodology is the opposite, as it is linear and unadaptive. It places a focus on documentation, and having set instructions and orders of doing things. It is not well-suited to complex projects, due to its rigidity and inflexibility, but it is easy to understand and implement, because of how clear it is.
The Scrum Framework is based on agile methodology, and again focuses on iteration. Tasks are executed in sprints- short periods of time where a team works together to complete an objective. Developers using the scrum framework have frequent stand-up meetings and reviews, to make sure that everyone is on the same page, thusly it requires a lot of communication between team members.
Kanban is an organisational system that focuses on visualising and managing projects. It consists of a board, with columns such as “To Do”, “Doing”, and “Done”- though it could have more than these. It can be used in conjunction with other methodologies, and is useful for keeping track of what is being done and what needs to be done. This method is useful in other areas of life too, not just software development.
The Lean Development Methodology focuses heavily on the reduction of waste, and continuous improvement. It helps with cutting down on redundant and repetitive code, as well as reducing the overall cost of development itself. Lean Methodology requires good communication and collaboration, as the goal is to be extremely efficient.
Then there are multitudinous hybrid approaches, combinations of various aspects of these methods, picked and chosen based on what is needed by developers.
